Update caching based on RFC9111 (#16009)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/caching/index.md

  - Guide
  - HTTP
---

# HTTP caching

{{HTTPSidebar}}

## Overview

The HTTP cache stores a response associated with a request, and reuses the stored response for subsequent requests.

> There are several advantages to reusability. First, since there is no need to deliver the request to the origin server, then the closer the client and cache are, the faster the response will be. The most typical example is when the browser itself stores a cache for browser requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several advantages to reusability. First, since there is no need to deliver the request to the origin server, then the closer the client and cache are, the faster the response will be. The most-typical example is when the browser itself stores a cache for browser requests.
```

Also, when a response is reusable, the origin server does not need to process the request — so it does not need to parse and route the request, restore the session based on the cookie, query the DB for results, or render the template engine. That reduces the load on the server.

Proper operation of the cache is critical to the health of the system.

> ## Type of caches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Types of caches
```

In the [HTTP Caching](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-cache) spec, there are two main types of caches: **private caches** and **shared caches**.

> ### Private cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Private caches
```

A private dache is a cache tied to a specific client — typically a browser cache. Since the stored response is not shared with other clients, a private cache can store a personalized response for that user.

On the other hand, if personalized contents are stored in a cache other than a private cache, then other users may be able to retrieve those contents — which may cause unintentional information leakage.

If a response contains personalized content and you want to store the response only in the private cache, you must specify a `private` directive.

```http
Cache-Control: private
```

Personalized contents are usually controlled by cookies, but the presence of a cookie does not always indicate that it is private, and thus a cookie alone does not make the response private.

> Also, since Private Cache requires `private`, you may think that Shared Cache requires `public`, but this is not quite true. Shared Cache will store a response without `public` as long as `max-age` is given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, since the private cache requires `private`, you may think that the shared cache requires `public` — but that is not quite true. A shared cache will store a response without needing `public` as long as `max-age` is given.
```

> If the response has an `Authorization` header, it cannot be stored in either the private cache or the shared cache, even if it has `max-age` — and `public` can be used to allow such a case). But if you are not using basic authentication and do not have an `Authorization` header, then there is no need to add `public`; it’s just a waste of bytes in that case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the response has an `Authorization` header, it cannot be stored in either the private cache or the shared cache, even if it has `max-age` — and `public` can be used to allow such a case. But if you are not using basic authentication and do not have an `Authorization` header, then there is no need to add `public`; it’s just a waste of bytes in that case.
```

### Shared cache

> The shared cache is located between the client and the server and can store responses that can be shared among users. And shared caches can be further sub-classified into proxy caches and managed caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shared cache is located between the client and the server and can store responses that can be shared among users. And shared caches can be further sub-classified into **proxy caches** and **managed caches**.
```

> #### Proxy cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Proxy caches
```

> In addition to the function of access control, some proxies implement caching to reduce traffic out of the network. This is usually not managed by the service developer, so it must be controlled by appropriate HTTP headers and so on. However, in the past, outdated proxy-cache implementations — such as implementations that do not properly understand the HTTP Cache standard — have often caused problems for developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the function of access control, some proxies implement caching to reduce traffic out of the network. This is usually not managed by the service developer, so it must be controlled by appropriate HTTP headers and so on. However, in the past, outdated proxy-cache implementations — such as implementations that do not properly understand the HTTP Caching standard — have often caused problems for developers.
```

**Kichen-sink headers** like following are used to try to work around "old and not updated proxy cache" implementations that do not understand current HTTP Caching spec directives like `no-store`.

```http
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, max-age=0, must-revalidate, proxy-revalidate
```

However, in recent years, as HTTPS has become more common and client/server communication has become encrypted, proxy caches in the path can only tunnel a response and can't behave as a cache, in many cases. So in that scenario, there is no need to worry about outdated proxy cache implementations that cannot even see the response.

> On the other hand, if a TLS bridge proxy decrypts all communications in a person-in-the-middle manner by installing a certificate from a CA managed by the organization on the PC, and performs access control, etc. — it is possible to see the contents of the response and cache it. However, since CT (certificate transparency) has become widespread in recent years, and some browsers only allow certificates issued with the SCT (signed certificate timestamp), this method requires the application of an enterprise policy. In such a controlled environment, there is no need to worry about the proxy cache being "out of date and not updated".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if a TLS bridge proxy decrypts all communications in a person-in-the-middle manner by installing a certificate from a CA managed by the organization on the PC, and performs access control, etc. — it is possible to see the contents of the response and cache it. However, since CT (certificate transparency) has become widespread in recent years, and some browsers only allow certificates issued with an SCT (signed certificate timestamp), this method requires the application of an enterprise policy. In such a controlled environment, there is no need to worry about the proxy cache being "out of date and not updated".
```

> #### Managed cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Managed caches
```

Managed caches are explicitly deployed by service developers to offload the origin server and to deliver content efficiently. Examples include reverse proxies, CDNs, and service workers in combination with the Cache API.

The characteristics of managed caches vary depending on the product deployed, but in most cases you can control its behavior not only through the `Cache-Control` header, but also through your own configuration files and dashboards.

> For example, the HTTP Caching specification normally does not have way to explicitly delete a cache — but with a managed cache, the stored response can be deleted at any time through dashboard operations, API calls, restarts,  and so on. That allows for a more proactive caching strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the HTTP Caching specification normally does not have a way to explicitly delete a cache — but with a managed cache, the stored response can be deleted at any time through dashboard operations, API calls, restarts,  and so on. That allows for a more proactive caching strategy.
```

> It is also possible to ignore the standard HTTP Caching spec protocols in favor of explicit manipulation. For example, the following can be specified to opt-out of a private cache or proxy cache, while using your own strategy to cache only in a managed cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to ignore the standard HTTP Caching specification protocols in favor of explicit manipulation. For example, the following can be specified to opt-out of a private cache or proxy cache, while using your own strategy to cache only in a managed cache.
```

```http
Cache-Control: no-store
```

For example, Varnish uses VCL-based logic to handle cache storage, while service workers in combination with the Cache API allow you to create that logic in JavaScript.

That means if a managed cache intentionally ignores a `no-store` directive, there is no need to perceive it as being "non-compliant" with the standard. What you should do is, avoid using kitchen-sink headers, but carefully read the documentation of whatever managed-cache mechanism you’re using, and ensure you’re controlling the cache properly in the ways provided by the mechanism you’ve chosen to use.

> Note that some CDNs provide their own headers that are effective only for that CDN (for example, `Surrogate-Control`). Currently, work is underway to standardize the `CDN-Cache-Control` header to standardize those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that some CDNs provide their own headers that are effective only for that CDN (for example, `Surrogate-Control`). Currently, work is underway to define a `CDN-Cache-Control` header to standardize those.
```

![Type of Cache](type-of-cache.png)

> ## Heuristic cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Heuristic caching
```

HTTP is designed to cache as much as possible, so even if no `Cache-Control` is given, responses will get stored and reused if certain conditions are met. This is called **heuristic caching**.

For example, take the following response. This response was last updated 1 year ago.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 22:22:22 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 22 Feb 2021 22:22:22 GMT

<!doctype html>
...
```

It is heuristically known that content whih has not been updated for a full year will not be updated for some time after that. Therefore, the client stores this response (despite the lack of `max-age`) and reuses it for a while. How long to reuse is up to the implementation, but the specification recommends about 10% (in this case 0.1 year) of the time after storing.

> It is commonn misunderstanding to assume that if you do not give a `Cache-Control`, it will not be stored. If you do not want such a store, you must explicitly deny it with a `Cache-Control`. Rather, the Heuristic Cache is a work around to make content cacheable before `Cache-Control` became popular, and basically all responses should explicitly specify a `Cache-Control` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heuristic caching is a workaround that came in being before `Cache-Control` support became widely, and basically all responses should explicitly specify a `Cache-Control` header.
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 22:22:22 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=604800
Age: 86400

<!doctype html>
...
```

The client which receives that response will find it to be fresh for the remaining 604800-86400 seconds; that is, for 518400 seconds more.

## Expires or max-age

In HTTP/1.0, freshness used to be specified by the `Expires` header.

The `Expires` header specifies the lifetime of the cache using an explicit time rather than by specifying an elapsed time.

```http
Expires: Tue, 28 Feb 2022 22:22:22 GMT
```

However, the time format is difficult to parse, many implementation bugs were found, and it is possible to induce problems by intentionally shifting the system clock; therefore,`max-age` — for specifying an elapsed time — was adopted for `Cache-Control` in HTTP/1.1.

> If both `Expires` and `Cache-Contro: max-age` are available, `max-age` is defined to be preferred. So it is not necessary to provide `Expires` now that HTTP/1.1 is widely used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both `Expires` and `Cache-Control: max-age` are available, `max-age` is defined to be preferred. So it is not necessary to provide `Expires` now that HTTP/1.1 is widely used.
```

## Vary

The way that responses are distinguished from one another is essentially based on their URLs:

![keyed with url](keyed-with-url.png)

But the content of responses are not always the same even if they have the same URL. Especially when content negotiation is performed, the response from the server can depend on the values of the `Accept`, `Accept-Language`, and `Accept-Encoding` request headers.

> For example, got English content returned with an `Accept-Language: en` header and cached, it is undesirable to then reuse that cached response for requests that have an `Accept-Language: ja` request header. In this case, you can cause the responses to be cached separately — based on language — by adding "`Accept-Language`" to the value of the `Vary` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for English content returned with an `Accept-Language: en` header and cached, it is undesirable to then reuse that cached response for requests that have an `Accept-Language: ja` request header. In this case, you can cause the responses to be cached separately — based on language — by adding "`Accept-Language`" to the value of the `Vary` header.
```

```http
Vary: Accept-Language
```

That causes the cache to be keyed based on a composite of the response URL and the `Accept-Language` request header — rather than being based just on the response URL.

![keyed with url and language](keyed-with-url-and-language.png)

> Also, if you are providing content optimization (for example, for responsive design) based on the user agent, you may be tempted to include "`User-Agent`" in the value of the `Vary` header. However, the `User-Agent` request header generally has a very large number of variations, which drastically reduces the chance that the cache will be reused. So if possible, instead consider a way vary behavior based on feature detection rather than based on the `User-Agent` request header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, if you are providing content optimization (for example, for responsive design) based on the user agent, you may be tempted to include "`User-Agent`" in the value of the `Vary` header. However, the `User-Agent` request header generally has a very large number of variations, which drastically reduces the chance that the cache will be reused. So if possible, instead consider a way to vary behavior based on feature detection rather than based on the `User-Agent` request header.
```

For applications that employ cookies to prevent others from reusing cached personalized content, you should specify `Cache-Control: private` instead of specifying a cookie for `Vary`.

## Validation

Stale responses are not immediately discarded. HTTP has a mechanism to transform a stale response to a fresh one by asking the origin server. This is called **validation**, or sometimes, **revalidation**.

> Validation is done by using conditional request that includes an `If-Modified-Since` or `If-None-Match` request header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validation is done by using a **conditional request** that includes an `If-Modified-Since` or `If-None-Match` request header.
```

The server can can obtain the modification time from the operating-system file system, which is relatively easy to do for the case of serving static files. However, there are some problems; for example, the time format is complex and difficult to parse, and distributed servers have difficulty synchronizing file-update times.

To solve such problems, the `ETag` response header was standardized as an alternative.

### ETag/If-None-Match

The value of the`ETag` response header is an arbitrary value generated by the server. There are no restrictions on how the server must generate the value, so servers are free to set the value based on whatever means they choose — such as a hash of the body contents or a version number.

As an example, if a hash value is used for the `ETag` header and the hash value of the `index.html` resource is `deadbeef`, the response will be as follows:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 22:22:22 GMT
ETag: "deadbeef"
Cache-Control: max-age=3600

<!doctype html>
...
```

> If that response is stale, the client takes the value of `ETag` response header for the cached response, and puts it into the `If-None-Match` request header, to ask the server if the resource has been modified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If that response is stale, the client takes the value of the `ETag` response header for the cached response, and puts it into the `If-None-Match` request header, to ask the server if the resource has been modified:
```

```http
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept: text/html
If-None-Match: "deadbeef"
```

The server will return `304 Not Modified` if the value of the `ETag` header it determines for the requested resource is the same as the `If-None-Match` value in the request.

But if the server determines the requested resource should now have a different `ETag` value, the server will instead respond with a `200 OK` and the latest version of the resource.

> > **Note:** ETag or Last-Modified ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** ETag or Last-Modified?
```

> > **Note:** ETag or Last-Modified?
> > During cache revalidation, if both `ETag` and `Last-Modified` are present, `ETag` takes precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The choose between `ETag` and `Last-Modified`, consider the following:
> During cache revalidation, if both `ETag` and `Last-Modified` are present, `ETag` takes precedence.
```

> > **Note:** The choose between `ETag` and `Last-Modified`, consider the following:
> > During cache revalidation, if both `ETag` and `Last-Modified` are present, `ETag` takes precedence.
> > Therefore, if you are only considering caching, you may think that `Last-Modified` is unnecessary.
> > However, `Last-Modified` is not just useful for caching; instead, it is a standard HTTP header that is also used by content-management (CMS) systems to display the last-modified time, by crawlers to adjust crawl frequency, and for other various purposes.
> > So considering the overall HTTP ecosystem, it is preferable to provide both `ETag` and `Last-Modified`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When evaluating how to use `ETag` and `Last-Modified`, consider the following:
> During cache revalidation, if both `ETag` and `Last-Modified` are present, `ETag` takes precedence.
> Therefore, if you are only considering caching, you may think that `Last-Modified` is unnecessary.
> However, `Last-Modified` is not just useful for caching; instead, it is a standard HTTP header that is also used by content-management (CMS) systems to display the last-modified time, by crawlers to adjust crawl frequency, and for other various purposes.
> So considering the overall HTTP ecosystem, it is preferable to provide both `ETag` and `Last-Modified`.
```

### Force Revalidation

If you do not want a response to be reused, but instead want to always fetch the latest content from the server, you can use the `no-cache` directive to force validation.

By adding `Cache-Control: no-cache` to the response along with `Last-Modified` and `ETag` — as shown below — the client will receive a `200 OK` response if the requested resource has been updated, or will otherwise receive a `304 Not Modified` response if the requested resource has not been updated.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Date: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 22:22:22 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 22:00:00 GMT
ETag: deadbeef
Cache-Control: no-cache

<!doctype html>
...
```

It is often stated that the combination of `max-age=0` and `must-revalidate` has the same meaning as `no-cache`.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=0, must-revalidate
```

> `max-age=0` means that the response is immediately stale, and `must-revalidate` means that it must not be reused without revalidation once it is stale — so the semantics seem to be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`max-age=0` means that the response is immediately stale, and `must-revalidate` means that it must not be reused without revalidation once it is stale — so in combination, the semantics seem to be the same as `no-cache`.
```

The following sections look at the circumstances in more detail.

### Do not share with others

It would be problematic if a response with personalized content is unexpectedly visible to other users.

In that case, by using the `private` directive will cause it to only be stored with the specific client, and not be leaked to anyone else.

```http
Cache-Control: private
```

In such a case, even if `no-store` is given, `private` must also be given .

### Provide up-to-date content every time

The `no-store` directive prevents a response from being stored, but does not delete any already-stored response for the same URL.

In other words, if there is an old response already stored for a particular URL, returning `no-store` will not prevent the old response from being reused.

However, a `no-cache` directive will force the client to send a validation request before reusing any stored response.

```http
Cache-Control: no-cache
```

If the server does not support conditional requests, you can force the client to access the server every time and always get the latest response with `200 OK`.

### Dealing with outdated implementations

> As a workaround to outdated implementations that ignore `no-store`, you may see kitchen-sink headers such as the following being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a workaround for outdated implementations that ignore `no-store`, you may see kitchen-sink headers such as the following being used.
```

Caching reduces access to the server, which means that the server loses control on that URL. If the server does not want to lose control of a URL — for example, in the case of resource that is frequently updated — you should add `no-cache` so that the server will always receive requests and send the intended responses.

## Request collapse

The shared cache is primarily located before the origin server and is intended to reduce traffic to the origin server.

Thus, if multiple identical requests arrive at a shared cache at the same time, the intermediate cache will forward a single request on behalf of itself to the origin, which can then reuse the result for all clients. This is called _**request collapse**_.

Request collapse occurs when requests are arriving at the same time, so even if `max-age=0` or `no-cache` is given in the response, it will be reused.

If the response is personalized to a particular user and you do not want it to be shared in collapse, you should add the `private` directive:

![Request Collapse](request-collapse.png)

> ## Caching pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common caching patterns
```

```html
<script src="bundle.v123.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="build.v123.css" />
<body>
  hellow
</body>
```

With that design, both JavaScript and CSS resources can be cached for a long time. So how long should `max-age` be set to? The QPACK specification provides an answer to that question.

[QPACK](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9204) is a standard for compressing HTTP header fields, with tables of commonly-used field values defined.

Some commonly-used cache-header values are shown below.

```
36 cache-control max-age=0
37 cache-control max-age=2592000
38 cache-control max-age=604800
39 cache-control no-cache
40 cache-control no-store
41 cache-control public, max-age=31536000
```

If you select one of those numbered options, you can compress values in 1 byte when transferred via HTTP3.

Numbers `37`, `38`, and `41` are for periods of one week, one month, and one year.

Because the cache removes old entries when new entries are saved, the probability that a stored response still exists after one week is not that high — even if `max-age` is set to 1 week. Therefore, in practice, it does not make much difference which one you choose.

> Note that number `41` has a longest `max-age` (1 year), but with `public`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that number `41` has the longest `max-age` (1 year), but with `public`.
```

```http
# response for bundle.v123.js

# If you never personalize responses via Authorization
Cache-Control: public, max-age=31536000

# If you can't be certain
Cache-Control: max-age=2592000
```

### Validation

Don't forget to set the `If-Modified-Since` and `ETag` headers, so that you don't have to re-transmit a resource when reloading. It’s easy to generate those headers for pre-built static files.

The `ETag` value here may be a hash of the file.

```http
# response for bundle.v123.js
If-Modified-Since: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 20:20:20 GMT
ETag: YsAIAAAA-QG4G6kCMAMBAAAAAAAoK
```

In addition, `immutable` can be added to prevent validation on reload.

The combined result is shown below.

```http
# bundle.v123.js
200 OK HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/javascript
Content-Length: 1024
Cache-Control: public, max-age=31536000, immutable
If-Modified-Since: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 20:20:20 GMT
ETag: YsAIAAAA-QG4G6kCMAMBAAAAAAAoK
```

Making a response cacheable over a long period of time by changing the URL when the content changes is called **cache busting**. That technique can be applied to all subresources, such as images.

> > **Note:** immutable and QPACK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When consider the use of `immutable` and QPACK: 
```

> > **Note:** When consider the use of `immutable` and QPACK: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When evaluating the use of `immutable` and QPACK: 
```

> If you’re concerned that `immutable` changes the predefined value provided by QPACK, consider that
> in this case, the `immutable` part can be encoded separately by splitting the `Cache-Control` value into two lines — though this is dependent on the encoding algorithm a particular QPACK implementation uses.

```http
Cache-Control: public, max-age=31536000
Cache-Control: immutable
```

> ### HTML Main resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Primary resources
```

Furthermore, adding `If-Modified-Since` and `If-None-Match` will allow clients to send conditional requests, and a `302 Not Modified` can be returned if there have been no updates to the HTML:

```http
200 OK HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Cache-Control: no-cache
If-Modified-Since: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 20:20:20 GMT
ETag: AAPuIbAOdvAGEETbgAAAAAAABAAE
```

That setting is appropriate for non-personalized HTML — but for a response which gets personalized using cookies (for example, after a login), don’t forget to also specify `private`:

```http
200 OK HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
Cache-Control: no-cache, private
If-Modified-Since: Tue, 22 Feb 2022 20:20:20 GMT
ETag: AAPuIbAOdvAGEETbgAAAAAAABAAE
Set-Cookie: __Host-SID=AHNtAyt3fvJrUL5g5tnGwER; Secure; Path=/; HttpOnly
```

The same can be used for `favicon.ico`, `manifest.json`, `.well-known`, and API endpoints whose URLs cannot be changed using cache busting.

Most web content can be covered by a combination of the two patterns described above.

> ### Additional managed cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More about the managed cache
```

With the method described in previous sections, subresources can be cached for a long time by using cache busting, but primary resources (which are usually HTML documents) can’t be.

> Caching main resources is difficult because, using standard directives from the HTTP Caching spec, there’s no way to actively delete cache contents when content is updated on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching primary resources is difficult because, using standard directives from the HTTP Caching spec, there’s no way to actively delete cache contents when content is updated on the server.
```

> Caching primary resources is difficult because, using standard directives from the HTTP Caching spec, there’s no way to actively delete cache contents when content is updated on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching primary resources is difficult because, using just standard directives from the HTTP Caching specification, there’s no way to actively delete cache contents when content is updated on the server.
```

However, it is possible by deploying a managed cache such as a CDN or service worker.

> For example, a CDN that allows cache purging via an API or dashboard operation would allow for a more aggressive caching strategy by storing the main resource and explicitly purging the relevant cache only when an update occurs on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a CDN that allows cache purging via an API or dashboard operation would allow for a more aggressive caching strategy by storing the primary resource and explicitly purging the relevant cache only when an update occurs on the server.
```
